# 2D Canvas Project

**Overview:**

**Nodes:**
This 2D Canvas project has 5 node types:
- Static text --> displays text that cannot be changed
- Formattable text --> displays text that can be changed by double clicking the node.
- Webpage --> displays a specified webpage with which the user can interact as they would on a normal browser.
- Video --> displays a video from a url with basic video playback features.
- Image --> displays an image either uploaded by the user from their computer or generated by OpenAI's DALLE-3 model based on a user-specified prompt (See ***DALLE-3 Image Generation and Cohere Chat***).
- Chat --> allows the user to interact with a chatbot with a specified system message (See ***DALLE-3 Image Generation and Cohere Chat***)


These nodes can be added by clicking their associated button in the 'Add Node' menu and entering the required information. Nodes can be moved around by dragging their top-bars. When the node's top-bar is double clicked, the node enters editable mode, where the user can engage with the node in 4 additional ways.
1) The node can be deleted completely by clicking the red 'X' button in the top right corner
2) A link can be added between two nodes by clicking one node's linking button followed by another node's linking button (see ***'Linking'*** below).
3) The node can be resized by dragging the resize symbol in the bottom right corner.
4) The node can be added to a collection or a new collection can be created by clicking the 'Collection Node' button (See ***'Collections'*** below).

**Collections:**
Grid collections are created by clicking the 'Collection Node' button while one or more nodes—including other collections—are in editable mode (these nodes must also not be in another collection already) A popup will then appear which will allow the user to drag their cursor on a 11x11 grid to easily specify the size of the grid collection. When they release their cursor, the grid size that they choose will appear and they will be asked to assign each selected node—specified by its title—to specific cells within the grid that they chose. When all the node locations are specified, they will be notified that they are 'Done'. They will then enter a name for the collection and click 'Create'. 

Any empty rows and columns will be automatically removed with the grid normalization function which removes any grid row and column gaps and ensures a compact and visually organized collection while removing the extra burden for the user to have to accurately organize the nodes without any gaps.

To remove a node from a collection, the user simply places the node in editable mode by double clicking its topbar, and clicks and drags their cursor as if they are moving it out of the collection. Once they move their cursor 100px, a confirmation alert will appear confirming that they want to remove the node from the collection.

When a node and a collection have been added to the main canvas, a new menu item will appear on the bottom of the screen when the menu is toggled: 'Add to Collection'. Next to it is a small info button which details the adding to collection mechanism. To add a node to a collection, only one collection and at least one node must be in editable mode (the collection can be nested within another collection). The user then will click the 'Add to Collection' button and a visual representation of the collection will appear with the occupied cells in blue. The user will then be asked to specify locations for the nodes to be added.

**Linking:**
Linking is handled by the LinkingManager class. Users can add links between nodes which will appear in a dropdown beneath the topbar. It will appear when the node is in editable mode. Links are automatically removed when a node is deleted and specific links can also be removed by clicking the 'X' button next to any link. If a node no longer has links, the dropdown will disappear automatically.

**DALLE-3 Image Generation and Cohere Chat:**
- The image node allows for a user to generate an image with OpenAI's image generation model (called DALLE-3). By providing a prompt and an OpenAI API key, an API call is made and the generated image is displayed.
- User's can also interact with Cohere's Chat API through the chat node. The user must provide an API key and can also specify a system message for the API to provide a more tailored experience.


